docs/lessons-learned/wireframe-designers.md, before:

# Lessons Learned - Wireframe Designers
<!-- Last Updated: 2025-08-04 -->
<!-- Next Review: 2025-09-04 -->

## Wireframe Standards

### File Organization
**Issue**: Wireframes scattered across multiple folders  
**Solution**: Keep wireframes with their functional area
```
functional-areas/
└── events-management/
    ├── wireframes/           # HTML wireframe files
    │   ├── event-list.html
    │   └── event-detail.html
    └── current-state/
        └── wireframes.md     # Documentation about wireframes
```
**Applies to**: All new wireframe creation

### Naming Conventions
**Issue**: Inconsistent file names making them hard to find  
**Solution**: Use descriptive, hyphenated names
```
✅ CORRECT:
- user-dashboard-overview.html
- event-creation-form.html
- admin-vetting-review.html

❌ WRONG:
- dashboard.html
- new_event.html
- AdminVetting.html
```
**Applies to**: All wireframe files

## Design Patterns

### Mobile-First Approach
**Issue**: Wireframes only showing desktop view  
**Solution**: Always design mobile view first
```html
<!-- Include viewport meta tag -->
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">

<!-- Use responsive classes -->
<div class="container">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-12 col-md-6">
      <!-- Content -->
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```
**Applies to**: All new wireframes

### Component Consistency
**Issue**: Same UI element designed differently across pages  
**Solution**: Reference the component library
- Check `standards-processes/ui-components/` for existing components
- Use consistent button styles, form layouts, etc.
- Don't reinvent existing patterns

### Accessibility Considerations
**Issue**: Wireframes missing accessibility features  
**Solution**: Include accessibility annotations
```html
<!-- Add aria labels and roles -->
<button aria-label="Close dialog" role="button">×</button>

<!-- Include skip navigation -->
<a href="#main-content" class="skip-link">Skip to main content</a>

<!-- Annotate color contrast requirements -->
<!-- Note: Text must have 4.5:1 contrast ratio -->
```
**Applies to**: All interactive elements

## WitchCityRope Specific Patterns

### Event Display Pattern
**Standard layout for events**:
1. Event image/banner (optional)
2. Title and scene name
3. Date, time, location
4. Price and ticket availability
5. Description
6. RSVP/Buy button

### User Dashboard Sections
**Standard organization**:
1. Welcome message with user name
2. Upcoming events (RSVPs and tickets)
3. Quick actions (browse events, update profile)
4. Recent activity
5. Settings link

### Form Layouts
**Consistent form structure**:
1. Clear heading
2. Required field indicators (*)
3. Field grouping with sections
4. Help text under fields
5. Clear primary action button
6. Cancel/back option

## Integration with Development

### Data Attributes
**Issue**: Developers can't identify elements from wireframes  
**Solution**: Add data-testid attributes
```html
<button data-testid="submit-event">Create Event</button>
<div data-testid="event-list">
  <div data-testid="event-card">...</div>
</div>
```
**Applies to**: All interactive elements

### State Representations
**Issue**: Only showing happy path  
**Solution**: Design all states
- Empty states (no data)
- Loading states
- Error states
- Success messages
- Validation errors

### Responsive Breakpoints
**Issue**: Unclear how design adapts  
**Solution**: Document breakpoints
```html
<!-- Add comments for breakpoints -->
<!-- Mobile: < 768px -->
<!-- Tablet: 768px - 1024px -->
<!-- Desktop: > 1024px -->
```

## Tools and Resources

### Recommended Tools
- **HTML/CSS**: For interactive wireframes
- **Comments**: Explain interactions and flows
- **Browser DevTools**: Test responsive design

### Style References
- Brand colors: See `standards-processes/ui-components/design-tokens.json`
- Typography: Check style guide
- Spacing: Use consistent 8px grid system

### Validation Checklist
Before submitting wireframes:
- [ ] Mobile view included
- [ ] All states represented
- [ ] Data-testid attributes added
- [ ] Accessibility considered
- [ ] Consistent with existing patterns
- [ ] File properly named and located

## Common Mistakes to Avoid

1. **Creating in isolation** - Always check existing components first
2. **Desktop-only thinking** - Mobile users are significant
3. **Perfect pixel designs** - Focus on layout and flow
4. **Missing edge cases** - What if list is empty? Text is long?
5. **Ignoring accessibility** - Consider keyboard navigation, screen readers

## Handoff Process

### What Developers Need
1. **Layout structure** - How components are arranged
2. **Interaction notes** - What happens on click/hover
3. **Data requirements** - What information is displayed
4. **State variations** - Different views based on conditions

### Documentation Format
Create a companion `.md` file explaining:
- User flow through the screens
- Business logic notes
- Questions or assumptions
- Links to related requirements

---

*Remember: Wireframes are communication tools. Clear annotations and consistency are more valuable than pixel perfection.*

Commit message:

Major documentation cleanup: Blazor to React migration
Comprehensive lessons learned consolidation:
- Created standard naming convention for lessons learned files
- Consolidated backend lessons (removed Blazor, added React patterns)
- Consolidated frontend lessons (transformed to React/Chakra UI)
- Consolidated testing lessons (React testing patterns)
- Archived obsolete Blazor-specific documentation
- Established single source of truth per domain

New standard structure:
- backend-lessons-learned.md (API patterns)
- frontend-lessons-learned.md (React patterns)
- testing-lessons-learned.md (Testing patterns)
- Archive folder for obsolete content

Benefits:
- No more duplicate lessons learned files
- All Blazor references removed/transformed
- Clear React-focused documentation
- Improved maintainability

docs/lessons-learned/wireframe-designers.md, after:

# Lessons Learned - Wireframe Designers
<!-- Last Updated: 2025-08-04 -->
<!-- Next Review: 2025-09-04 -->

> **⚠️ ARCHIVED**: Wireframe-specific patterns have been consolidated into `/docs/lessons-learned/frontend-lessons-learned.md` with React/modern CSS equivalents.
> 
> **Archive Date**: 2025-08-16  
> **Reason**: Migrated to React - wireframe patterns updated for React components
> 
> This file is kept for historical reference during the migration period.

## Wireframe Standards

### File Organization
**Issue**: Wireframes scattered across multiple folders  
**Solution**: Keep wireframes with their functional area
```
functional-areas/
└── events-management/
    ├── wireframes/           # HTML wireframe files
    │   ├── event-list.html
    │   └── event-detail.html
    └── current-state/
        └── wireframes.md     # Documentation about wireframes
```
**Applies to**: All new wireframe creation

### Naming Conventions
**Issue**: Inconsistent file names making them hard to find  
**Solution**: Use descriptive, hyphenated names
```
✅ CORRECT:
- user-dashboard-overview.html
- event-creation-form.html
- admin-vetting-review.html

❌ WRONG:
- dashboard.html
- new_event.html
- AdminVetting.html
```
**Applies to**: All wireframe files

## Design Patterns

### Mobile-First Approach
**Issue**: Wireframes only showing desktop view  
**Solution**: Always design mobile view first
```html
<!-- Include viewport meta tag -->
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">

<!-- Use responsive classes -->
<div class="container">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-12 col-md-6">
      <!-- Content -->
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```
**Applies to**: All new wireframes

### Component Consistency
**Issue**: Same UI element designed differently across pages  
**Solution**: Reference the component library
- Check `standards-processes/ui-components/` for existing components
- Use consistent button styles, form layouts, etc.
- Don't reinvent existing patterns

### Accessibility Considerations
**Issue**: Wireframes missing accessibility features  
**Solution**: Include accessibility annotations
```html
<!-- Add aria labels and roles -->
<button aria-label="Close dialog" role="button">×</button>

<!-- Include skip navigation -->
<a href="#main-content" class="skip-link">Skip to main content</a>

<!-- Annotate color contrast requirements -->
<!-- Note: Text must have 4.5:1 contrast ratio -->
```
**Applies to**: All interactive elements

## WitchCityRope Specific Patterns

### Event Display Pattern
**Standard layout for events**:
1. Event image/banner (optional)
2. Title and scene name
3. Date, time, location
4. Price and ticket availability
5. Description
6. RSVP/Buy button

### User Dashboard Sections
**Standard organization**:
1. Welcome message with user name
2. Upcoming events (RSVPs and tickets)
3. Quick actions (browse events, update profile)
4. Recent activity
5. Settings link

### Form Layouts
**Consistent form structure**:
1. Clear heading
2. Required field indicators (*)
3. Field grouping with sections
4. Help text under fields
5. Clear primary action button
6. Cancel/back option

## Integration with Development

### Data Attributes
**Issue**: Developers can't identify elements from wireframes  
**Solution**: Add data-testid attributes
```html
<button data-testid="submit-event">Create Event</button>
<div data-testid="event-list">
  <div data-testid="event-card">...</div>
</div>
```
**Applies to**: All interactive elements

### State Representations
**Issue**: Only showing happy path  
**Solution**: Design all states
- Empty states (no data)
- Loading states
- Error states
- Success messages
- Validation errors

### Responsive Breakpoints
**Issue**: Unclear how design adapts  
**Solution**: Document breakpoints
```html
<!-- Add comments for breakpoints -->
<!-- Mobile: < 768px -->
<!-- Tablet: 768px - 1024px -->
<!-- Desktop: > 1024px -->
```

## Tools and Resources

### Recommended Tools
- **HTML/CSS**: For interactive wireframes
- **Comments**: Explain interactions and flows
- **Browser DevTools**: Test responsive design

### Style References
- Brand colors: See `standards-processes/ui-components/design-tokens.json`
- Typography: Check style guide
- Spacing: Use consistent 8px grid system

### Validation Checklist
Before submitting wireframes:
- [ ] Mobile view included
- [ ] All states represented
- [ ] Data-testid attributes added
- [ ] Accessibility considered
- [ ] Consistent with existing patterns
- [ ] File properly named and located

## Common Mistakes to Avoid

1. **Creating in isolation** - Always check existing components first
2. **Desktop-only thinking** - Mobile users are significant
3. **Perfect pixel designs** - Focus on layout and flow
4. **Missing edge cases** - What if list is empty? Text is long?
5. **Ignoring accessibility** - Consider keyboard navigation, screen readers

## Handoff Process

### What Developers Need
1. **Layout structure** - How components are arranged
2. **Interaction notes** - What happens on click/hover
3. **Data requirements** - What information is displayed
4. **State variations** - Different views based on conditions

### Documentation Format
Create a companion `.md` file explaining:
- User flow through the screens
- Business logic notes
- Questions or assumptions
- Links to related requirements

---

*Remember: Wireframes are communication tools. Clear annotations and consistency are more valuable than pixel perfection.*
