docs/design/responsive-design-issues.md, before:

# Responsive Design Issues & Fixes

This document outlines all responsive design issues found across the Witch City Rope wireframes and provides specific fixes for each issue.

## Critical Issues Summary

### 1. **Non-functional Mobile Navigation**
- Mobile menu toggle buttons exist but lack JavaScript implementation
- No consistent mobile navigation pattern across pages
- Some pages completely hide navigation on mobile with no alternative

### 2. **Table Overflow Problems**
- No responsive table wrappers with `overflow-x: auto`
- Tables will break layouts on mobile devices
- No mobile-optimized table alternatives (card views)

### 3. **Grid Layout Issues**
- Event cards use `minmax(350px, 1fr)` causing overflow on screens < 390px
- Fixed-width sidebars (250px-280px) don't collapse on mobile
- Missing intermediate breakpoints for tablets

### 4. **Form & Input Problems**
- Fixed-width search inputs (250px-300px) may overflow
- 2FA code inputs too small on very small screens
- Date/time pickers not optimized for touch

## Specific Fixes by Component

### Navigation Fixes

```css
/* Add to all pages - Mobile Navigation Implementation */
@media (max-width: 768px) {
  .mobile-menu {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    right: -100%;
    width: 80%;
    max-width: 300px;
    height: 100vh;
    background: var(--color-ivory);
    box-shadow: -4px 0 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
    transition: right 0.3s ease;
    z-index: 1000;
    overflow-y: auto;
  }
  
  .mobile-menu.active {
    right: 0;
  }
  
  .mobile-menu-overlay {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    background: rgba(0,0,0,0.5);
    opacity: 0;
    visibility: hidden;
    transition: all 0.3s ease;
    z-index: 999;
  }
  
  .mobile-menu-overlay.active {
    opacity: 1;
    visibility: visible;
  }
}
```

### Table Responsive Wrapper

```css
/* Add to all pages with tables */
.table-responsive {
  overflow-x: auto;
  -webkit-overflow-scrolling: touch;
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
}

.table-responsive table {
  min-width: 600px; /* Adjust based on content */
}

/* Mobile card view for tables */
@media (max-width: 768px) {
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile table,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile thead,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile tbody,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile th,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile td,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile tr {
    display: block;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile thead tr {
    position: absolute;
    top: -9999px;
    left: -9999px;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile tr {
    border: 1px solid var(--color-taupe);
    margin-bottom: 10px;
    border-radius: 8px;
    padding: 10px;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile td {
    border: none;
    position: relative;
    padding-left: 50%;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile td:before {
    content: attr(data-label);
    position: absolute;
    left: 6px;
    width: 45%;
    padding-right: 10px;
    white-space: nowrap;
    font-weight: bold;
  }
}
```

### Grid Layout Fixes

```css
/* Fix event card grid overflow */
@media (max-width: 480px) {
  .events-grid {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr !important;
    gap: var(--space-md);
  }
  
  .event-card {
    min-width: 0; /* Prevent overflow */
  }
}

/* Responsive sidebar layout */
@media (max-width: 1024px) {
  .layout-with-sidebar {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr !important;
  }
  
  .sidebar {
    position: fixed;
    left: -280px;
    top: 0;
    height: 100vh;
    width: 280px;
    background: var(--color-ivory);
    box-shadow: 4px 0 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
    transition: left 0.3s ease;
    z-index: 100;
  }
  
  .sidebar.active {
    left: 0;
  }
}
```

### Form Input Fixes

```css
/* Responsive search input */
.search-input {
  width: 100%;
  max-width: 300px;
}

@media (max-width: 480px) {
  .search-input {
    max-width: 100%;
  }
}

/* 2FA Code Input Optimization */
@media (max-width: 480px) {
  .code-inputs {
    gap: 8px;
  }
  
  .code-input {
    width: 40px;
    height: 40px;
    font-size: 16px; /* Prevents zoom on iOS */
  }
}

/* Touch-friendly form controls */
@media (max-width: 768px) {
  input[type="text"],
  input[type="email"],
  input[type="password"],
  input[type="tel"],
  textarea,
  select,
  button,
  .btn {
    min-height: 44px; /* iOS touch target size */
    font-size: 16px; /* Prevents zoom on iOS */
  }
}
```

### Breakpoint Standardization

```css
/* Standard breakpoints to use across all pages */
:root {
  --breakpoint-xs: 480px;
  --breakpoint-sm: 768px;
  --breakpoint-md: 1024px;
  --breakpoint-lg: 1440px;
}

/* Mobile first approach */
/* Default styles for mobile */

@media (min-width: 480px) {
  /* Larger phones */
}

@media (min-width: 768px) {
  /* Tablets */
}

@media (min-width: 1024px) {
  /* Desktop */
}

@media (min-width: 1440px) {
  /* Large desktop */
}
```

### Utility Classes for Responsive Design

```css
/* Hide/Show utilities */
@media (max-width: 767px) {
  .hide-mobile { display: none !important; }
  .show-mobile { display: block !important; }
}

@media (min-width: 768px) {
  .hide-desktop { display: none !important; }
  .show-desktop { display: block !important; }
}

/* Responsive spacing */
.p-responsive {
  padding: var(--space-sm);
}

@media (min-width: 768px) {
  .p-responsive {
    padding: var(--space-md);
  }
}

@media (min-width: 1024px) {
  .p-responsive {
    padding: var(--space-lg);
  }
}
```

## JavaScript Implementation for Mobile Menu

```javascript
// Add to all pages
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
  const mobileMenuToggle = document.querySelector('.mobile-menu-toggle');
  const mobileMenu = document.querySelector('.mobile-menu');
  const mobileMenuOverlay = document.querySelector('.mobile-menu-overlay');
  
  if (mobileMenuToggle && mobileMenu) {
    mobileMenuToggle.addEventListener('click', function() {
      mobileMenu.classList.toggle('active');
      mobileMenuOverlay.classList.toggle('active');
      document.body.style.overflow = mobileMenu.classList.contains('active') ? 'hidden' : '';
    });
    
    mobileMenuOverlay.addEventListener('click', function() {
      mobileMenu.classList.remove('active');
      mobileMenuOverlay.classList.remove('active');
      document.body.style.overflow = '';
    });
  }
});
```

## Page-Specific Fixes Needed

### landing-page-visual-v2.html
1. Change event grid: `grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fill, minmax(280px, 1fr))`
2. Add padding reduction on mobile: `padding: 20px` instead of `40px`
3. Stack hero buttons with gap on mobile

### event-creation.html
1. Add all responsive styles (currently has none)
2. Implement collapsible sidebar for mobile
3. Convert tabs to dropdown on mobile
4. Make all tables responsive

### All Admin Pages
1. Add consistent mobile navigation
2. Wrap all tables in responsive containers
3. Stack stats cards properly on mobile
4. Implement touch-friendly controls

### All Member Dashboard Pages
1. Standardize sidebar behavior
2. Add mobile navigation toggle
3. Make all grids responsive
4. Ensure forms stack properly

## Testing Checklist

- [ ] Test on real devices (not just browser DevTools)
- [ ] Check on phones: 320px, 375px, 414px widths
- [ ] Test on tablets: 768px, 834px widths
- [ ] Verify touch targets are at least 44px
- [ ] Ensure no horizontal scroll on any page
- [ ] Test with dynamic content (long names, titles)
- [ ] Verify forms are usable on mobile
- [ ] Check performance on older devices
- [ ] Test with mobile screen readers

## Priority Implementation Order

1. **Critical**: Fix horizontal scroll issues (grid layouts, tables)
2. **High**: Implement mobile navigation across all pages
3. **Medium**: Optimize forms and inputs for mobile
4. **Low**: Fine-tune animations and transitions

This comprehensive fix list should be implemented before the development phase begins to ensure a solid responsive foundation.

Commit message:

Major documentation cleanup: Blazor to React migration
Comprehensive lessons learned consolidation:
- Created standard naming convention for lessons learned files
- Consolidated backend lessons (removed Blazor, added React patterns)
- Consolidated frontend lessons (transformed to React/Chakra UI)
- Consolidated testing lessons (React testing patterns)
- Archived obsolete Blazor-specific documentation
- Established single source of truth per domain

New standard structure:
- backend-lessons-learned.md (API patterns)
- frontend-lessons-learned.md (React patterns)
- testing-lessons-learned.md (Testing patterns)
- Archive folder for obsolete content

Benefits:
- No more duplicate lessons learned files
- All Blazor references removed/transformed
- Clear React-focused documentation
- Improved maintainability

docs/design/responsive-design-issues.md, after:

# Responsive Design Issues & Fixes

> **⚠️ ARCHIVED**: This Blazor/CSS-specific document has been consolidated into `/docs/lessons-learned/frontend-lessons-learned.md` with React/Tailwind equivalents.
> 
> **Archive Date**: 2025-08-16  
> **Reason**: Migrated to React with Tailwind CSS - Blazor CSS patterns no longer applicable
> 
> This file is kept for historical reference during the migration period.

This document outlines all responsive design issues found across the Witch City Rope wireframes and provides specific fixes for each issue.

## Critical Issues Summary

### 1. **Non-functional Mobile Navigation**
- Mobile menu toggle buttons exist but lack JavaScript implementation
- No consistent mobile navigation pattern across pages
- Some pages completely hide navigation on mobile with no alternative

### 2. **Table Overflow Problems**
- No responsive table wrappers with `overflow-x: auto`
- Tables will break layouts on mobile devices
- No mobile-optimized table alternatives (card views)

### 3. **Grid Layout Issues**
- Event cards use `minmax(350px, 1fr)` causing overflow on screens < 390px
- Fixed-width sidebars (250px-280px) don't collapse on mobile
- Missing intermediate breakpoints for tablets

### 4. **Form & Input Problems**
- Fixed-width search inputs (250px-300px) may overflow
- 2FA code inputs too small on very small screens
- Date/time pickers not optimized for touch

## Specific Fixes by Component

### Navigation Fixes

```css
/* Add to all pages - Mobile Navigation Implementation */
@media (max-width: 768px) {
  .mobile-menu {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    right: -100%;
    width: 80%;
    max-width: 300px;
    height: 100vh;
    background: var(--color-ivory);
    box-shadow: -4px 0 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
    transition: right 0.3s ease;
    z-index: 1000;
    overflow-y: auto;
  }
  
  .mobile-menu.active {
    right: 0;
  }
  
  .mobile-menu-overlay {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    background: rgba(0,0,0,0.5);
    opacity: 0;
    visibility: hidden;
    transition: all 0.3s ease;
    z-index: 999;
  }
  
  .mobile-menu-overlay.active {
    opacity: 1;
    visibility: visible;
  }
}
```

### Table Responsive Wrapper

```css
/* Add to all pages with tables */
.table-responsive {
  overflow-x: auto;
  -webkit-overflow-scrolling: touch;
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
}

.table-responsive table {
  min-width: 600px; /* Adjust based on content */
}

/* Mobile card view for tables */
@media (max-width: 768px) {
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile table,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile thead,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile tbody,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile th,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile td,
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile tr {
    display: block;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile thead tr {
    position: absolute;
    top: -9999px;
    left: -9999px;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile tr {
    border: 1px solid var(--color-taupe);
    margin-bottom: 10px;
    border-radius: 8px;
    padding: 10px;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile td {
    border: none;
    position: relative;
    padding-left: 50%;
  }
  
  .table-responsive.cards-mobile td:before {
    content: attr(data-label);
    position: absolute;
    left: 6px;
    width: 45%;
    padding-right: 10px;
    white-space: nowrap;
    font-weight: bold;
  }
}
```

### Grid Layout Fixes

```css
/* Fix event card grid overflow */
@media (max-width: 480px) {
  .events-grid {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr !important;
    gap: var(--space-md);
  }
  
  .event-card {
    min-width: 0; /* Prevent overflow */
  }
}

/* Responsive sidebar layout */
@media (max-width: 1024px) {
  .layout-with-sidebar {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr !important;
  }
  
  .sidebar {
    position: fixed;
    left: -280px;
    top: 0;
    height: 100vh;
    width: 280px;
    background: var(--color-ivory);
    box-shadow: 4px 0 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
    transition: left 0.3s ease;
    z-index: 100;
  }
  
  .sidebar.active {
    left: 0;
  }
}
```

### Form Input Fixes

```css
/* Responsive search input */
.search-input {
  width: 100%;
  max-width: 300px;
}

@media (max-width: 480px) {
  .search-input {
    max-width: 100%;
  }
}

/* 2FA Code Input Optimization */
@media (max-width: 480px) {
  .code-inputs {
    gap: 8px;
  }
  
  .code-input {
    width: 40px;
    height: 40px;
    font-size: 16px; /* Prevents zoom on iOS */
  }
}

/* Touch-friendly form controls */
@media (max-width: 768px) {
  input[type="text"],
  input[type="email"],
  input[type="password"],
  input[type="tel"],
  textarea,
  select,
  button,
  .btn {
    min-height: 44px; /* iOS touch target size */
    font-size: 16px; /* Prevents zoom on iOS */
  }
}
```

### Breakpoint Standardization

```css
/* Standard breakpoints to use across all pages */
:root {
  --breakpoint-xs: 480px;
  --breakpoint-sm: 768px;
  --breakpoint-md: 1024px;
  --breakpoint-lg: 1440px;
}

/* Mobile first approach */
/* Default styles for mobile */

@media (min-width: 480px) {
  /* Larger phones */
}

@media (min-width: 768px) {
  /* Tablets */
}

@media (min-width: 1024px) {
  /* Desktop */
}

@media (min-width: 1440px) {
  /* Large desktop */
}
```

### Utility Classes for Responsive Design

```css
/* Hide/Show utilities */
@media (max-width: 767px) {
  .hide-mobile { display: none !important; }
  .show-mobile { display: block !important; }
}

@media (min-width: 768px) {
  .hide-desktop { display: none !important; }
  .show-desktop { display: block !important; }
}

/* Responsive spacing */
.p-responsive {
  padding: var(--space-sm);
}

@media (min-width: 768px) {
  .p-responsive {
    padding: var(--space-md);
  }
}

@media (min-width: 1024px) {
  .p-responsive {
    padding: var(--space-lg);
  }
}
```

## JavaScript Implementation for Mobile Menu

```javascript
// Add to all pages
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
  const mobileMenuToggle = document.querySelector('.mobile-menu-toggle');
  const mobileMenu = document.querySelector('.mobile-menu');
  const mobileMenuOverlay = document.querySelector('.mobile-menu-overlay');
  
  if (mobileMenuToggle && mobileMenu) {
    mobileMenuToggle.addEventListener('click', function() {
      mobileMenu.classList.toggle('active');
      mobileMenuOverlay.classList.toggle('active');
      document.body.style.overflow = mobileMenu.classList.contains('active') ? 'hidden' : '';
    });
    
    mobileMenuOverlay.addEventListener('click', function() {
      mobileMenu.classList.remove('active');
      mobileMenuOverlay.classList.remove('active');
      document.body.style.overflow = '';
    });
  }
});
```

## Page-Specific Fixes Needed

### landing-page-visual-v2.html
1. Change event grid: `grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fill, minmax(280px, 1fr))`
2. Add padding reduction on mobile: `padding: 20px` instead of `40px`
3. Stack hero buttons with gap on mobile

### event-creation.html
1. Add all responsive styles (currently has none)
2. Implement collapsible sidebar for mobile
3. Convert tabs to dropdown on mobile
4. Make all tables responsive

### All Admin Pages
1. Add consistent mobile navigation
2. Wrap all tables in responsive containers
3. Stack stats cards properly on mobile
4. Implement touch-friendly controls

### All Member Dashboard Pages
1. Standardize sidebar behavior
2. Add mobile navigation toggle
3. Make all grids responsive
4. Ensure forms stack properly

## Testing Checklist

- [ ] Test on real devices (not just browser DevTools)
- [ ] Check on phones: 320px, 375px, 414px widths
- [ ] Test on tablets: 768px, 834px widths
- [ ] Verify touch targets are at least 44px
- [ ] Ensure no horizontal scroll on any page
- [ ] Test with dynamic content (long names, titles)
- [ ] Verify forms are usable on mobile
- [ ] Check performance on older devices
- [ ] Test with mobile screen readers

## Priority Implementation Order

1. **Critical**: Fix horizontal scroll issues (grid layouts, tables)
2. **High**: Implement mobile navigation across all pages
3. **Medium**: Optimize forms and inputs for mobile
4. **Low**: Fine-tune animations and transitions

This comprehensive fix list should be implemented before the development phase begins to ensure a solid responsive foundation.
